# Chat-synth

This project was generated using chat gpt. Apart from running clang-format I have done nothing.


Prompt: Write a polyphonic software synthesizer supporting instruments in c++ without any external dependencies that loads music files from the commandline. Additionally also include a sample song file for a Tjajkovskij

> Here is a sample C++ code for a polyphonic software synthesizer that supports instruments and loads music files from the commandline. The synthesizer does not have any external dependencies and is able to play a sample song file for Tjajkovskij's "Swan Lake".

> To play the sample song file for Tjajkovskij's "Swan Lake" using the synthesizer, the user can run the following command on the commandline:
>    ./synthesizer swan_lake.txt
> where "synthesizer" is the name of the executable file generated by the C++ code and "swan_lake.txt" is the name of the sample music file.


Prompt: Great. Now write a modern CMake project that builds it

> Here is a sample CMake project that builds the polyphonic software synthesizer described above.


Prompt: write a readme.md file for this project

Prompt: git commit message in one sentance describing the changes we just made

Prompt: The synth from earlier isn't calling generateSample. I think it would be better instead of playing the song we should synth the song to wav file

> Yes, you are correct. In the original code, the function generateSample() is not being called. It would be better to modify the code to generate the samples for the synthesizer and write them to a wav file, instead of playing the song directly.

> Here is a modified version of the C++ code for the polyphonic software synthesizer that generates the samples and writes them to a wav file:

Prompt: git commit in one line describing what we have done

Prompt: the program generated song.wav but it's silent, why?

> The program is generating samples for the synthesizer and writing them to the wav file, but the samples are not being generated correctly. This could be due to several reasons, such as incorrect parsing of the music file, incorrect calculation of the sample values, or incorrect writing of the wav file.

> To fix this issue, we need to carefully review the code and identify the source of the problem. We can also add more debug output to the code to help us understand what is happening at each step. For example, we can print the values of the variables used in the sample generation and the wav file writing, and compare them with the expected values. We can also add more test cases to the code and verify that the generated samples and wav files are correct for those cases. Once we find the source of the problem, we can fix it and try again until the program generates a correct and audible wav file.

Prompt: adding test cases seems like a logical step. add some test cases, again not using any external dependencies 

> To add test cases to the code, we can create a new function called runTests() that contains the test cases and calls the functions of the synthesizer. This function should return true if all tests pass, and false otherwise.
> Here is an example of how the runTests() function could be implemented:

> Write a one line commit describing the changes we made

Prompt: The first test is failing, what's the fix?

> In the first test case, the expected value of the sample buffer is 0.2, but the actual value is 0. This indicates that the sample generation is not working correctly. To fix this, we need to carefully review the code and identify the source of the problem.

> One possible issue is that the calculation of the sample value is incorrect. In the generateSample() function, the value is calculated by summing the sin of the phase multiplied by 2 * pi for different harmonic frequencies. However, these harmonic frequencies are hardcoded and not specific to each instrument. This means that the same frequencies are used for all instruments, which may not produce the correct sound for each instrument.

> To fix this, we can modify the generateSample() function to calculate the harmonic frequencies based on the instrument. For example, the piano instrument can use the first few harmonics (1, 2, 3), the violin instrument can use the first few even harmonics (2, 4, 6), and the trumpet instrument can use the first few odd harmonics (1, 3, 5). This will produce the correct sound for each instrument and fix the issue with the sample generation.

> Here is an example of how the generateSample() function could be modified:

> After applying this fix, the first test case should pass and the program should generate the correct samples for the synthesizer. We can then run the other test cases and verify that they also pass, and make any additional fixes if needed.

Prompt: Nope, sorry. Test 1 is still failing.

> If the first test case is still failing, it is likely that the issue is not with the sample generation, but with the calculation of the expected value. This can happen if the expected value is incorrect, or if the code is not properly executing the test case.

> To fix this issue, we can carefully review the code and verify that the expected value is correct, and that the test case is executed correctly. For example, we can print the values of the variables used in the test case and compare them with the expected values. We can also add more debug output to the code to help us understand what is happening at each step.

> Here is an example of how the first test case could be modified with additional debug output:

> After applying this fix, we can run the program again and check the output to see if the expected values are correct and the test case is executed properly. If the expected values are incorrect, we can modify them to the correct values and try again. If the test case is not executed properly, we can identify the source of the issue and fix it.

Prompt: Both generated samples are 0! What can we do to fix it.


> If the generated samples are 0, it indicates that there is an issue with the sample generation. This can happen if the code is not properly executing the sample generation, or if the sample generation is incorrect.

> To fix this issue, we can carefully review the code and verify that the sample generation is executed correctly. For example, we can print the values of the variables used in the sample generation and compare them with the expected values. We can also add more debug output to the code to help us understand what is happening at each step.

> Here is an example of how the generateSample() function could be modified with additional debug output:

> After applying this fix, we can run the program again and check the output to see if the sample generation is executed properly and the calculated sample value is correct. If the sample generation is not executed properly, we can identify the source of the issue and fix it. If the calculated sample value is incorrect, we can modify the code to use the correct value and try again.

> If the issue is still not resolved, it is possible that there is a more fundamental problem with the code, such as a bug in the initialization of the synthesizer or the playNote() function. We can carefully review these functions and make any necessary fixes to ensure that the synthesizer is properly initialized and the notes are played correctly. This will help us to identify and fix the issue with the generated samples.

[5a83a4ecf32247a1b3379e54dce5659896e11c8f](https://github.com/madeso/chat-synth/tree/5a83a4ecf32247a1b3379e54dce5659896e11c8f)

Here I gave up and tried to read the code. It looks correct from a glance but it doesn't do anything. If you came here looking for a software-synth, perhaps the [OLC software synth](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tgamhuQnOkM) videos are interesting.
